.Dd January 2, 2024
.Dt mctallyd 1
.Os mcplex.net
.Sh NAME
.Nm mctallyd
.Nd daemon to answer requests for list of installed packages matching a regular expression
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl c Ar configFile
.Op Fl d
.Op Fl p Ar pidFile
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
answers requests from
.Xr mctally 1
for installed package information.  It can also answer requests for load
averages, active logins, uptime and uname information from
.Xr mctally 1 .
.Pp
The following command line options are available:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl c Ar configFile
Specify the
.Xr mctallyd 8
configuration file.  If not specified, /usr/local/etc/mctallyd.cfg is
used.
.It Fl d
Do not daemonize.  Useful for debugging.
.It Fl p Ar pidFile
Specify the path to the file where
.Xr mctallyd 8 's
process ID will be stored.
.El
.Sh STARTING AT BOOT
.Ss FreeBSD
/usr/local/etc/rc.d/mctallyd is installed as part of the FreeBSD
package.  It is a standard FreeBSD start/stop script.  To enable
.Xr mctallyd 8
at boot, set \fImctallyd_enable\fR to "YES" in \fI/etc/rc.conf\fR:
.Pp
.D1 mctallyd_enable="YES"
.Ss Linux (with systemd)
/etc/systemd/system/mctallyd.service is installed as part of the
Linux package.  It is a standard systemd service configuration
file.  To enable
.Xr mctallyd 8
at boot:
.Pp
.D1 systemctl enable mctallyd
.Pp
To start it once enabled without rebooting:
.Pp
.D1 systemctl start mctallyd
.Ss macOS
/Library/LaunchDaemons/net.mcplex.mctallyd.plist is installed as
part of the macOS package.  It should be started during installation,
but if not, it can be started with:
.Pp
.D1 launchctl load -w /Library/LaunchDaemons/net.mcplex.mctallyd.plist
.Sh FILES
.Ss CONFIGURATION FILE
The standard location of the configuration file is
\fI/usr/local/etc/mctallyd.cfg\fR
.Pp
An example configuration is included in
\fI/usr/local/etc/mctallyd.cfg.example\fR
.Ss CREDENCE KEY FILES
.Nm
uses libCredence for encryption and authentication.  Hence it
requires credence key files.  The location of these key files is specified
as the \fIkeyDirectory\fR in the
.Nm
configuration file.  See the
.Xr credence 1 manpage for information on creating the public and private
key files.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Pa <keyDirectory>/id_ed25519
The
.Xr mctallyd 8 private key file, created with
.Xr credence 1 .  This file should be owned by root and have
permissions 0600.  It must contain the private part of an Ed25519
RSA key pair.
.It Pa <keyDirectory>/id_ed25519.pub
.Xr mctallyd 8's public key file, created with
.Xr credence 1 .  This file should be owned by root and have
permissions 0600.  It must contain the public part of an Ed25519 key pair.
.It Pa <keyDirectory>/known_keys
This file must contain the public keys of users allowed to query
.Xr mctallyd 8
with
.Xr mctally 1
(one per line).
.El
.Pp
Note that currently, changes to any of the key files requires a restart
of
.Xr mctallyd 8 .
This will likely change in the future.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mctally 1 ,
.Xr credence 1
.Sh COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2024 Daniel W. McRobb
.Mt dwm@mcplex.net
.Pp

